# Operating_Platforms_CS230

## Briefly summarize The Gaming Room client and their software requirements. Who was the client? What type of software did they want you to design?

The client, The Gaming Room, approached Creative Technology Solutions (CTS) for consulation about setting up an environment that would help them to expand their game, Draw It or Lose It. They wanted the game to be available on multiple platforms, including Windows, Mac OS, Linux, iOS, and Andriod. The Gaming Room specifically wanted their game to be web-based and they had also set up some rules that need to be implemented in the game. Those rules include that the game needs to render an image from a library of stock images, it must consist of four rounds of play while each round lasts for one minute, drawings must be rendered at a steady rate and completed by 30 seconds, and if the team fails to guess the puzzle before the time expires then the remaining teams have a chance to guess the puzzle but within a 15 second time limit. The Gaming Room does not have the staff that can develop and meet these needs and they have turned to Creative Technology Solutions (CTS) to assist in developing and implementing their software to meet their needs.

## What did you do particularly well in developing this documentation?

In developing this documentation I believe that I did well in establishing the design constraints that the company had to deal with. Additionally, I believe that I did a thorough job of evaluating the different operating systems that the company could use, in terms of server side, client side, and development tools. These helped in leading me to recommend Linux as the best option for the company.

## What about the process of working through a design document did you find helpful when developing the code?

The part of the process that was helpful when developing the code was the UML diagram. This diagram helped me understand how the program was supposed to function in the simplest manner possible. It showed how different objects of the program connected to each other which made it easier to develop the code. Without the diagram, the development of the code could have been much more complicated as I would have to take my time to understand how the program's objects connected to each other.

## If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?

If I could revise any part of my work on this document it would be a revision to some of my recommendations. I would have done some more research into the operating systems architectures, the distributed systems network, and the security. I believe that in those sections I was not as concise as I should have been, and that I could have made them simpler and more informative by focusing on just the important details.

## How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your software design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?

When I read the user's needs, I focused on what the program needed as inputs and outputs, along with what processes needed to happen between those inputs and outputs, such as the time limit on how long a user has until an image is fully rendered. I tend looked at aspects of the user's demands that go beyond the game itself, like wanting it to be web-based or having more than one instance of the game running at a time. I implemented them into my software design by picking things that are important to optimize for the user's needs. For example, since the program does not have too many complicated functions and it just needs to mainly render images, then the storage capacity does not need to be large as small and simple software that just render an image and input user guess, do not take up much storage space, this allows me to fit with in the user's needs and save them resources that could be used for other aspects of their system, like memory. It is important to condsider the user's needs when designing the product that they want because the main goal of the program and the system is to run the software that the user wants and it needs to be done with in the user's constraints.

## How did you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a similar software application?

When designing software, my approach starts with focusing on the UML diagram. This diagram helps me understand what the programs inputs, outputs, and any process that happends in between the input and output. Once I understand what the program does through the UML diagram, or by examing the code, I can then begin to analyze what I need to use to design the software so that it fits what the user/client needs. If it does not match what the client needs or wants, then I will make any adjustments since the clients needs take priority. When it comes to operating system, hardware related aspects, and security, they will come last since I can make a better decission about them once I have the software completed. In the future I will use a UML diagram of any future client's software application, compare the diagram that I make with the client's needs, and after seeing that I met the client's needs, I will focus on other important aspects like memory, security, operating system, and more.
